v23.2.4 release notes (#18441)
cockroachdb/docs: src/current/_includes/releases/v23.2/v23.2.4.md

## v23.2.4

> Release Date: April 8, 2024

Reviewer: Ditto

Author: good catch! updated to 04-09

{% include releases/release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v23-2-4-sql-language-changes">SQL language changes</h3>

> - Mutation statements such as [`UPDATE`](../v23.2/update.html) and [`DELETE`](../v23.2/delete.html) as well as locking statements such as [`SELECT FOR UPDATE`](../v23.2/select-for-update.html) are not allowed in [read-only transactions](../v23.2/set-transaction.html#parameters) or [`AS OF SYSTEM TIME` transactions](../v23.2/set-transaction.html#parameters). Fixed a bug where mutation statements and locking statements in implicit single-statement transactions using AS OF SYSTEM TIME were allowed. [#120158][#120158]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Mutation statements such as [`UPDATE`](../v23.2/update.html) and [`DELETE`](../v23.2/delete.html) as well as locking statements such as [`SELECT FOR UPDATE`](../v23.2/select-for-update.html) are not allowed in [read-only transactions](../v23.2/set-transaction.html#parameters) or [`AS OF SYSTEM TIME` transactions](../v23.2/set-transaction.html#parameters). This is the result of fixing a bug where mutation statements and locking statements in implicit single-statement transactions using `AS OF SYSTEM TIME` were allowed. [#120158][#120158]
```

Reviewer: This is kind of a wordy suggestion, but I feel like the relationship between the two sentences wasn't clear. Feel free to adjust further.

Author: updated

- The new cluster setting [`sql.stats.virtual_computed_columns.enabled`](../v23.2/cluster-settings.html#setting-sql-stats-virtual-computed-columns-enabled), when enabled, allows the collection of [table statistics](../v23.2/show-statistics.html) on [virtual computed columns](../v23.2/computed-columns.html). [#120933][#120933]
- The new [session variable](../v23.2/session-variables.html) `optimizer_use_virtual_computed_column_stats`, when enabled, configures the [cost-based optimizer](../v23.2/cost-based-optimizer.html) to use [table statistics](../v23.2/show-statistics.html) on [virtual computed columns](../v23.2/computed-columns.html). [#121329]

<h3 id="v23-2-4-db-console-changes">DB Console changes</h3>

> - Fixed an issue where clusters with multiple [stores](../v23.2/cockroach-start.html#store) per node may list inaccurate region and node information on the [Databases page](../v23.2/ui-databases-page.html#databases). [#120212][#120212]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed an issue where clusters with multiple [stores](../v23.2/cockroach-start.html#store) per node could list inaccurate region and node information on the [**Databases** page](../v23.2/ui-databases-page.html#databases). [#120212][#120212]
```

Author: updated

> - Users will no longer see [views](../v23.2/views.html) displayed on the [Databases page](../v23.2/ui-databases-page.html#databases). Previously views would be listed with no information, only displaying errors. [#120214][#120214]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Users will no longer see [views](../v23.2/views.html) displayed on the [**Databases** page](../v23.2/ui-databases-page.html#databases). Previously views would be listed with no information, only displaying errors. [#120214][#120214]
```

Author: updated

<h3 id="v23-2-4-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Previously, [altering a table's locality](../v23.2/alter-table.html#set-locality) from [`REGIONAL BY ROW`](../v23.2/alter-table.html#set-the-table-locality-to-regional-by-row) to [`REGIONAL BY TABLE`](../v23.2/alter-table.html#regional-by-table) could cause [leaseholders](../v23.2/architecture/replication-layer.html#leases) to never move to the [database's primary region](../v23.2/alter-database.html#set-primary-region). This is now fixed. [#118794][#118794]

> - A user with the [`VIEWACTIVITYREDACTED` privilege](../v23.2/security-reference/authorization.html#privileges) should not be able to see constants inside of queries that originate from other users in the [`SHOW SESSIONS` result](../v23.2/show-sessions.html#response). Previously, this redaction did not occur, but this is fixed now. [#119884][#119884]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A user with the [`VIEWACTIVITYREDACTED` privilege](../v23.2/security-reference/authorization.html#privileges) can no longer see constants inside of queries that originate from other users in the [`SHOW SESSIONS` result](../v23.2/show-sessions.html#response). Previously, this redaction did not occur. [#119884][#119884]
```

Author: updated

> - Previously, the [`SHOW STATEMENTS`](../v23.2/show-statements.html) and the [`SHOW QUERIES`](../v23.2/show-statements.html#aliases) commands were incorrectly requiring that the user has the [`VIEWACTIVITY` or `VIEWACTIVITYREDACTED` privilege](../v23.2/security-reference/authorization.html#privileges). However, a user always should be able to view their own queries, even without these privileges. This is fixed now. [#119884][#119884]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Previously, the [`SHOW STATEMENTS`](../v23.2/show-statements.html) and the [`SHOW QUERIES`](../v23.2/show-statements.html#aliases) commands incorrectly required the user to have the [`VIEWACTIVITY` or `VIEWACTIVITYREDACTED` privilege](../v23.2/security-reference/authorization.html#privileges). However, a user always should be able to view their own queries, even without these privileges. This is now fixed. [#119884][#119884]
```

Author: updated

> - Fixed a bug where [`RESTORE`](../v23.2/restore.html) on certain [`backups`](../v23.2/backup.html) would open a very large number of connections to the backup storage provider. [#119883][#119883]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed a bug where [`RESTORE`](../v23.2/restore.html) on certain [`BACKUP`s](../v23.2/backup.html) would open a very large number of connections to the backup storage provider. [#119883][#119883]
```

Author: updated

> - Fixed a bug that occurred when using [`ALTER TABLE`](../v23.2/alter-table.html) to [drop](../v23.2/alter-table.html#drop-constraint) and [add](../v23.2/alter-table.html#add-constraint) back a [CHECK constraint](../v23.2/check.html) with the same name. [#120075][#120075]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed a bug that occurred when using [`ALTER TABLE`](../v23.2/alter-table.html) to [drop](../v23.2/alter-table.html#drop-constraint) and [add](../v23.2/alter-table.html#add-constraint) back a [`CHECK` constraint](../v23.2/check.html) with the same name. [#120075][#120075]
```

Author: updated

> - Fixed a bug in which it was possible to set [session variable](../v23.2/session-variables.html) `transaction_read_only` to `false` during an [AS OF SYSTEM TIME transaction](../v23.2/set-transaction.html#parameters). [#120158][#120158]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed a bug in which it was possible to set the [session variable](../v23.2/session-variables.html) `transaction_read_only` to `false` during an [`AS OF SYSTEM TIME` transaction](../v23.2/set-transaction.html#parameters). [#120158][#120158]
```

Author: updated

> - Fixed a bug where some files were not closed when inspecting [backup metadata](../v23.2/backup-architecture.html#metadata-writing-phase) during [BACKUP](../v23.2/backup.html) and [RESTORE](../v23.2/restore.html). [#119635][#119635]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed a bug where some files were not closed when inspecting [backup metadata](../v23.2/backup-architecture.html#metadata-writing-phase) during [`BACKUP`](../v23.2/backup.html) and [`RESTORE`](../v23.2/restore.html). [#119635][#119635]
```

Author: updated

> - Fixed an intermittent page crash on the [Schema Insights](../cockroachcloud/insights-page.html#schema-insights-tab) view. [#120210][#120210]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed an intermittent page crash on the [**Schema Insights**](../cockroachcloud/insights-page.html#schema-insights-tab) view. [#120210][#120210]
```

Author: updated

- The new [session variable](../v23.2/session-variables.html) `optimizer_use_virtual_computed_column_stats`, when enabled, configures the [cost-based optimizer](../v23.2/cost-based-optimizer.html) to use [table statistics](../v23.2/show-statistics.html) on [virtual computed columns](../v23.2/computed-columns.html). [#121329]

<h3 id="v23-2-4-db-console-changes">DB Console changes</h3>

- Fixed an issue where clusters with multiple [stores](../v23.2/cockroach-start.html#store) per node could list inaccurate region and node information on the [**Databases** page](../v23.2/ui-databases-page.html#databases). [#120212][#120212]
- Users will no longer see [views](../v23.2/views.html) displayed on the [**Databases** page](../v23.2/ui-databases-page.html#databases). Previously views would be listed with no information, only displaying errors. [#120214][#120214]

<h3 id="v23-2-4-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

> - Previously, on long-running [sessions](../v23.2/show-sessions.html) that issue many (hundreds of thousands or more) [transactions](../v23.2/transactions.html), CockroachDB's internal memory accounting system, the limit for which is configured via the [`--max-sql-memory` flag](../v23.2/cockroach-start.html#general)) could leak. This bug, in turn, could result in the error message `"root: memory budget exceeded"` for other queries. The bug was present in v23.1.17 and is now fixed. [#121875][#121875]

Reviewer 2: The bug is also present on 23.2.3 version (i.e. only specifically 23.1.17 and 23.2.3). (I did mention this in the original release note to https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/121875, but I think the mention of 23.2.3 version was consciously omitted from 23.1.18 release notes.)
